A case in this video we're going to be looking at in a Joines and in a joint So the most common type
of join you'll encounter.
So let's take a look now.
So here I've selected stuff from my orders table and you can see we have the all the time for each order
and we have customer ID and part of ID now tidy and saying isn't really that useful.
I mean we don't really know what part of tidy one is what tidy five is free is etc. but if we were to
select stuff from our products table
we can see that for each product today we have a name.
So this is much more useful information.
So what if we wanted to select the product name field but also be all the time from the Order table
would have to do a join on the orders and the products table.
So let's have a look at how we can do that now.
So I want to join products in the order table so that we get the product name filled from the Products
table and they all the time from the Orders table.
So we can write and enjoying queery to do this.
So let's do that now that selects from orders.
Now I've left column blank for now.
I'll fill that in in a minute.
So we select from orders and we want to do and enjoy in on the next line with the products table.
So this is how we do and enjoying we select from one table and then we write in a drawing on the second
table and then we need to write on.
Now the two tables have to have a column in common to do the join.
So you can see here we have in the Orders table we have a product ID field and in the products table
we have an ID field and these are the two columns which are in common with each table.
So on the after the on we can type orders Product ID.
This is saying from the Orders table we have to put up today and that's equal to the Products table
ID.
So this is saying that the prototype ID column from the Orders table is equivalent to the ID field from
the Products table.
So when we do our join on the orders on the products table we need to type on orders dot product id
x products ID.
And then of course we need to finish with a semi-colon.
So before we run this statement let's now select our columns.
So we wanted to select the name column from the Products table and we wanted to select the order time
from the Orders table.
Now if we were just to type name and order a time like this like we normally do when selecting from
a table my isko doesn't actually know which table to select the name field from which table to select
View all the time from.
Does it select from the Orders table or the products table.
So again we need to first type the table name.
So in this case it's product and we need to do product name.
And then for all the time we need to do the same.
So we need to take orders all the time.
And actually the name is products no product.
Say Be careful there.
So select table name column name from Table 1 in enjoying table 2 ON TABLE 1 door column name ECOs table
to call them name.
Now let's run this statement and you can see now we have much more useful information.
Instead of having the product.
So one two three four five six seven we have the names so we can see espresso was ordered at this time
and is ordered by the product name by default.
And then you can see when macchiato is in the cappuccinos and the filters and latte's etc are ordered.
So this is how we join tables using an inner join.
And it's quite a lot of writing here is quite a long statement to write out.
But there's actually a shorthand version of this.
And let's do let's write out the shorthand version now.
So I'm going to write the equivalent join stateman but I'm going to write the shorthand version.
So again we start with select and instead of writing the whole table name I'm just going to write.
Don't name say pay for products and then I'm going to type orders for orders.
So I order time from orders
an off to orders I'm just going to type.
I said this is like when we did the column name radiuses we wrote the column name as another name.
So this is like the equivalent of up for tables.
So we're saying that the orders table is going to be referenced doesn't I.
From now on this statement.
And then on the next line we can actually just type join than in a join.
So join in and join the same our equivalent.
We need to type products and then we need to set the table alias again.
So for products it's going to be pay.
And then we need to do on product ID is the COO to p ID so you can see this was a lot quicker to write
out when you use the table name alias's orders to IBM products to pay.
And then let's run this statement and you can see it returns exactly the same information.
So we can also have a where clause is an order by clause is in our Joines as well.
So lets add a few now so that she can also add the price to this query.
So P-doc price the price column from the products table and I'm going to add an ORDER BY statement so
I'm going to say order by and I want to order it by the order time this time rather than the product
name.
So in the order by I need to write I because it's the orders table all the time.
And let's run that query now and you can see as I did the price column from the products table.
But it's no longer ordered by a product name as ordered by the all the time.
So we have the first of January 2017 and then the second and third fourth etc..
So remember when you're adding an order by clauses to your Joines you need to first state the table
name then the column name and it's exactly the same for the where clause is the where clause where the
products product ID is equal to 5.
So again we need to stay the table say the product IDs from the Orders table.
So we need to type doc product IDs equal to 5 and then we can run statement and you can see just returns
all the orders for Product ID 5 which is a miracle.
So you got Americano price and every time that was ordered at the store.
OK so that's it for in a Joines.
Just remember the syntax when writing enjoying queries it's like select table name dot call a name for
all the columns you want to have in your resultset and then you say from Table 1 join table to all and
table one doc column name it cause table to that column name and make sure that these two columns are
equivalent to each other.
So part of ID and ID fields.
So if you want to practice you're in a joint statement.
Maybe you'd like to try and write a query which joins the orders table and custom is table but that's
it for this video.